well now I'm going to show you recipe
that I think is quite a lot of fun
especially if you've got some friends
coming over and it's a very very slow
cooked chili
it's called Cincinnati Fiveways chili
and it's quite different from the kind
of chili we're used to serving over here
so we're going to start off with the
normal chili ingredient which is beef
and this is braising steak and the
braising steak has been chopped so we've
got 500 grams there which are going into
the casserole and we're not going to
brown it it's going to be very very easy
and here I got a large onion and the
onion has been chopped really finely as
you can see here with too quite fat
cloves of garlic and I've got here a
heaped teaspoon of whole coriander seeds
and a heaped teaspoon of cumin seeds and
I'm going to crush them but not very
finely just so in they go next all over
the meat a heaped teaspoon full of
ground cinnamon and then this one here
which is dimension picante hot paprika
and this has got the lovely smoked
flavor and I'm going to use a heat
teaspoon of that and always love the
color and the sauce we're gonna cook the
chili in is this which is a reduced
tomato pepper and chili sauce this is
the cheat element really because some it
saves us crushing chilies and sauteing
peppers and all those kind of things
that you have to do and then because
there's some left I'm just going to
rinse it out with a quarter of a jar of
warm water that's going to just help to
keep it moist and then we're going to
have some salt and what happens here
this is gonna go over to the heat I'll
just give it a stir first and we're
going to actually cook it for four hours
let's just take your own cup I'm going
to turn the heat on high just get it up
to simmering points let it simmer really
really gently like just one or two
bubbles coming up to the surface this
long slow cooking just brings out such a
wonderful flavor so when it comes up
simmering point let's turn it down to
its very very lowest and just put the
lid on and let it simmer gently for four
hours and you're going to have a really
really good supper or lunch waiting for
you the reason this is called Cincinnati
5 waste chili is because it has five
accompaniments when you serve the chili
I give everybody a bowl of chili and
then they just dip in and help
themselves to the various components so
we just get a ladle full of chili in
there like that there we go and then put
in a little bit of onion and you can
have a bit of each or you know choose
what you want a little bit of cheese now
which will melt down into the hot chili
and then we'll have a few pinto beans my
friend Matt who gave me this recipe says
never never kidney beans always pinto
beans a nice dollop of sour cream on top
and then what happens next is the
biscuits are just sort of broken up like
this you can use any kind of crackers
you like any small crackers I mixed in
with the chili
Cincinnati fashioned and then you just
go in with your fork eat see what you
like a bit more off and then all I have
to say is it's very very good